feat: Add request body compression with optional brotli (#927)
apify/apify-client-python: docs/02_concepts/13_http_compression.mdx

---
id: http-compression
title: HTTP compression
description: The client compresses every request body automatically using gzip by default, with optional brotli via an explicit opt-in.
---

> The Apify client compresses every request body before sending it to the API. This reduces the amount of data transferred over the network, resulting in faster requests and lower bandwidth usage, especially for large payloads such as Actor inputs, dataset uploads, or key-value store records.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Apify client compresses every request body before sending it to the API. It reduces the amount of data transferred over the network, resulting in faster requests and lower bandwidth usage, especially for large payloads such as Actor inputs, dataset uploads, or key-value store records.
```

## How it works

The client compresses request bodies using the compressor configured via the `compression` parameter (default `'gzip'`). The server supports both gzip and brotli and decompresses the request body transparently.

## Configuration

> Pass `compression` to the client constructor to choose the compression algorithm:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To choose the compression algorithm, pass `compression` to the client constructor:
```

```

## Comparison

|                               | Brotli                                  | Gzip                            |
|-------------------------------|-----------------------------------------|---------------------------------|
| **Compression ratio**         | Typically better than gzip              | Good                            |
| **CPU cost**                  | Moderate, depends on quality            | Low                             |
| **Availability**              | Requires the `brotli` extra             | Built-in, no extra needed       |
| **`Content-Encoding` header** | `br`                                    | `gzip`                          |
| **Quality range**             | `0–11`                                  | `1–9`                           |
| **Default quality**           | `6`                                     | `9`                             |
| **Enable via config**         | `compression='brotli'`                  | `compression='gzip'` (default)  |
| **Best for**                  | Large payloads where bandwidth matters  | Minimal-dependency environments |

:::tip

> For most workloads, the bandwidth savings from brotli outweigh the small CPU overhead. Install the `brotli` extra and pass `compression='brotli'` unless you're running in an environment where installing additional packages isn't feasible.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For most workloads, the bandwidth savings from brotli outweigh the CPU costs. Install the `brotli` extra and pass `compression='brotli'` unless you can't install additional packages in your environment.
```
Just simplification that's easier on the eyes
